(12) STANDARD PATENT APPLICATION (11) Application No. AU 2024203136 Al 
(19) AUSTRALIAN PATENT OFFICE 
(54) Title 
Decentralized system for identification, authentication, data encryption, cloud and 
distributed cluster computing 
(51) International Patent Classification(s) 
G06Q 50/26 (2012.01) G06Q 40/04 (2012.01) 
G06F 9/50 (2006.01) HO4L 9/08 (2006.01) 
G06F 21/32 (2013.01 ) HO4L 9/32 (2006.01) 
G06F 21/41 (2013.0 1 ) G06N 3/0464 (2023.01) 
G06Q 10/00 (2023.01) 
(21) Application No: 2024203136 (22) Date of Filing: 2024.05.12 
(30) Priority Data 
(31) Number (32) Date (33) Country 
2023901444 2023.05.12 AU 
(43) Publication Date: 2024.11.28 
(43) Publication Journal Date: 2024.11.28 
(71) Applicant(s) 
DET-lO PTY LIMITED 
(72) Inventor(s) 
Philipos, Jonathan;Livenson, lja;Poorun, Rohan 
(74) Agent / Attorney 
DET-lO PTY LIMITED, 2 Gipsy Street, Bungarribee, NSW, 2767, AU

Abstract 
Decentralized system for identification, authentication, data encryption, cloud and distributed cluster 
computing is disclosed within this document referred to as 'VirtEngine'. The system provides a secure and 
verifiable way to establish and verify the identity of individuals and entities within a blockchain network as 
well as protect and encrypt sensitive data. These systems can be particularly useful for applications such as 
online marketplaces, where it is important to ensure the identity of participants and protect sensitive data.  
VirtEngine employs a mobile app that enables users to verify their identity and authenticate through 
document uploads, biometric sensors, facial recognition, and web-based scopes such as single sign-on, 
email verification, and SMS verification. The system also uses data encryption to ensure sensitive data is not 
stored on the public ledger and can only be accessed by authorized user accounts. VirtEngine also powers a 
Distributed Cluster Computing network and its own Cloud Marketplace system, allowing compute providers 
to convert computing power into tradeable currencies while allowing consumers to purchase computing 
power via Cloud Services, High Performance Compute, and other integrations.

45 
Figure 2A: 
VAEiinie Idenifican iMSyrstem (VLID) 
DOcinre I Docuttvm Camera Ph~ .,. oSca eRnail,o ca RPntiatin f rm l-no 
ac'2rrialleil Iia 
*phol" hom and Pub 
ID Records 
IonSi~ Sig n 
2 Facto,,SO Auhnication 
Panonnoi 
EMS verficalin., Email Verilfcaio., 
Docae, Mnold 
Cursipauiso, Appkctn m-onxsoll 
system

2 
Decentralized system for identification, authentication, data encryption, cloud 
and distributed computing 
TECHNICAL FIELD 
The following implementation generally relates to decentralized computing, distributed 
computing, cloud computing, identification utilizing artificial intelligence technologies and 
methods for integrating such technologies within an enclosed decentralized system.  
BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION 
The following references and descriptions of prior proposals or products that follow are not 
intended to be, and should not be understood as, statements or admissions of commonly 
known information in the field. Specifically, the discussion of prior art that follows does not 
relate to what is commonly known or understood by experts in the field, but rather helps to 
clarify the innovative aspect of the present invention, which includes identifying relevant 
prior art proposals as one aspect.  
Al-based Identification: 
* Facial recognition: Al systems can be trained to recognize and identify individuals 
based on their facial features. This can be done through the use of machine learning 
algorithms that analyse images and compare them to a database of known 
individuals.  
* Biometric identification: Al systems can be used to identify individuals based on their 
unique physical characteristics, such as fingerprints, iris scans, or facial recognition 
data.  
• Document Validity: Al Systems can be used to identify and validate document 
authenticity such as ID Cards, Passports, and other legal identity documents.  
Blockchain: 
• The use of distributed ledger technology to create a decentralized and tamper-proof 
record of transactions.  
* The use of cryptographic techniques to secure the data on the ledger and ensure the 
integrity of the transaction record.  
* The use of consensus algorithms to validate and add new transactions to the ledger.  
Cloud Computing: 
* The use of virtualized resources and services to provide scalable and flexible 
computing capabilities over the internet.  
• The use of resource pooling and allocation mechanisms to enable users to access 
and pay for only the computing resources they need.

3 
* The use of software as a service (SaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and 
infrastructure as a service (laaS) model to enable users to access different levels of 
computing resources and capabilities.  
Distributed Computing: 
* The use of distributed systems to enable multiple computers to work together on a 
common task.  
* The use of message passing and communication protocols to enable the exchange of 
data and coordination between the computers.  
* The use of algorithms and techniques for fault tolerance, load balancing, and 
resource allocation to enable the system to handle failures and maintain 
performance.  
Supercomputers: 
* Supercomputers are typically designed with specialized hardware and software 
architectures that allow them to perform their tasks at high speeds. This can include 
specialized microprocessors, memory systems, and interconnects.  
* Supercomputers often use parallel computing techniques to distribute tasks across 
multiple processors. This can include techniques such as message passing, shared 
memory, and distributed memory.  
* Supercomputers often require specialized data management systems to handle the 
large amounts of data that they generate. This can include distributed file systems, 
data warehouses, and data lakes.  
* Supercomputers are often used for high performance computing (HPC) applications, 
which require the processing of large amounts of data in real time. HPC applications 
can include simulations, data analysis, and other tasks that require fast processing 
speeds.  
Current Limitations with Background Techniques used in these technologies: 
(1) Traditional Cloud Computing relies on Centralized Entities to build and manage their 
Cloud Computing services, resulting in a Single Point of failure and risk of data 
loss/downtime.  
(2) Decentralized Systems do not provide a method for Identifying and Verifying users 
for KYC (Know Your Customer) regulations required by most government agencies 
when dealing with finance.  
(3) Decentralized Computing through Blockchain does not offer access to HPC, instead 
relies on users to implement custom code such as Smart Contracts to access 
compute power offered by Blockchains.  
(4) Distributed Computing is dependent on centralized entities to manage and deploy 
the network.  
(5) Supercomputers rely on Centralized entities to deploy and manage infrastructure.  
(6) Distributed Computing networks are limited by network interconnection between 
nodes thus making them unsuitable for certain real-time use cases.

4 
(7) Supercomputers are limited by physical infrastructure constraints, however, provide 
higher network interconnection between compute nodes compared to Distributed 
Computing.  
(8) There are no publicly commercially available Distributed Computing systems, 
Folding@Home is an example of an existing Distributed Computing system however 
access is limited to specific Scientists and Research Organizations within the Protein 
Folding space.  
(9) There are no publicly commercially available Supercomputers that can be rented by 
anyone, the only available systems are reserved for scientists and researchers such 
as Summit, Sierra and Frontera supercomputers.  
(10) Supercomputers require tremendous CAPEX funds to implement and deploy.  
(11) Cloud Computing can provide a limited alternative to supercomputer 
capabilities, is limited by the amount of hardware that can be deployed and 
dedicated for HPC tasks.  
(12) Blockchain Proof of Work networks such as Bitcoin are inherently extremely 
wasteful on computing capacity.  
(13) Cloud Computing services can be underutilized, thus leading to wasted 
computing capacity due to the requirements of providers needing additional 
capacity implemented to deal with surges in demand.  
(14) Consumer compute devices such as mobile and PCs computing capacities are 
often underutilized as devices are not always actively used to their full computing 
extent.  
(15) Blockchain is a decentralized, distributed ledger technology that allows 
multiple parties to securely record and verify transactions without the need for a 
central authority. It uses a distributed database that consists of a series of blocks, 
each containing a list of transactions. These transactions are verified and added to 
the blockchain through a process known as consensus, which involves multiple 
nodes (computers) on the network agreeing on the validity of the transaction. While 
blockchain can be used to process and store data, it is not a type of decentralized 
computing in the same way that distributed computing or supercomputing are.  
Distributed computing involves using multiple computers to work on a single task, 
whereas existing blockchain technologies use a decentralized network of computers 
to record and verify transactions.

5 
SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION 
VirtEngine is a decentralized system for identification, authentication, data encryption, 
distributed computing and cloud computing.  
The VirtEngine (100) identification system utilizes the Cosmos SDK blockchain platform and 
TensorFlow machine learning algorithms to score users on a scale from 0 to 100, where 0 is 
an unknown identity and 100 is a completely verified user.  
VirtEngine (100) employs a mobile app that enables users to verify their identity and 
authenticate through document uploads, biometric sensors, facial recognition, and web
based scopes such as single sign-on, email verification, and SMS verification. The mobile app 
uses the camera to capture images of identity documents and the user's face for biometric 
and facial recognition. The system then utilizes multiple types of Neural Networks utilizing 
Tensorflow in order to implement Facial Recognition, Comparisons, and Analysis of data 
collected to verify the identity of users. This allows VirtEngine (100) to recognize a user's 
identity through an automated, artificially intelligent algorithm.  
For authentication, VirtEngine (100) offers multiple options including ledger accounts and 
non-custodial key management, which can be linked to password-less authentication 
systems such as Google, Facebook, and Microsoft single sign-on. Creating new accounts 
generates a mnemonic seed, which can be used to login to various wallets and manage their 
account. Genesis accounts have permissions to access the admin portal and nominate 
service providers, support staff, and other administrators, as well as disable standard user 
accounts to prevent fraud and manage the platform.  
To ensure sensitive data is not stored on the public ledger, VirtEngine (100) uses data 
encryption based on third party public keys. Only the intended recipients can decrypt the 
information using their private keys. Sensitive data includes order information, ID 
documents, support requests, resource details, account settings, and owned organizations.  
Only authorized user accounts can access this data, and it is encrypted in transit and at rest.  
VirtEngine (100) also includes a decentralized Cloud Marketplace (103) that allows users to 
rent out their computing resources to the network. The marketplace integrates the SLURM 
workload manager and deploys it across nodes within Kubernetes clusters. As the 
marketplace grows, more resources will be available for the decentralized SLURM clusters.  
Blockchain computing allows for the running of parallel codebases across multiple 
independent nodes, enabling automated deployment of SLURM workload nodes and adding 
them to existing clusters to build the largest global decentralized SLURM compute 
marketplace.  
A Golang-based module with support for the SLURM workload manager is used to manage 
the deployment of workloads across the decentralized nodes. The module includes a library 
of pre-configured SLURM workloads that can be deployed on demand, as well as support for 
custom workloads. The module also includes a billing system that tracks the use of

6 
resources and generates invoices for the users who have rented out their computing 
resources.  
VirtEngine (100) provides a secure and verifiable way to establish and verify the identity of 
individuals and entities within a blockchain network. It offers a range of options for 
identification and authentication, including document uploads, biometric sensors, facial 
recognition, and web-based scopes. It also uses data encryption to ensure sensitive data is 
not stored on the public ledger and can only be accessed by authorized user accounts. The 
decentralized cloud marketplace (103) allows users to rent out their computing resources 
and deploy workloads across a decentralized network of nodes.  
Traditional Cloud Computing relies on a Centralized Model of computing, there is a large 
CAPEX fund expenditure required to build and deploy Data-center Facilities to store and 
compute data. In today's world, consumer computing devices are quite common and in high 
supply. Many consumer computing devices utilize an exceedingly small portion of their 
CPU/Memory/Storage capacity which could be repurposed to deliver Distributed 
Computing. By repurposing common consumer computing electronics to power a 
Decentralized Computing cluster -users can achieve an efficient model to utilize High 
Volume Distributed Computing.  
A Decentralized and distributed cloud computing model also provides benefits such as a 
shared economy, minimal latency use-cases, and no single point of failure by distributing 
Network, Computing, and Storage services across a decentralized platform.  
Advantageous Effects of Invention 
1. Removes dependence of human interaction on user sign up process 
2. Includes redundancies providing a robust platform for infrastructure services 
3. Copes with power supply failures.  
4. Copes with network supply failures.  
5. Copes with infrastructure supply failures.  
6. Provides an infinitely scalable infrastructure platform for compute and physical assets.  
7. Provides an identification platform for sensitive transactions.  
8. Provides a robust encryption methodology to secure communications 
9. Provides a robust identification methodology to authorize transactions 
10. Provides users with access to financial institutions such as currency exchange and 
holdings

7 
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS 
Figure 1: The overall architecture of VirtEngine (100) Protocol, includes how systems 
interact with each other through API's and Service Mesh.  
Figure 2: The overall architecture of VirtEngine Identification System 
Figure 3: Includes a screenshot of how the Dashboard looks like.  
Figure 4: Includes a screenshot of how Public Offerings overview can be added.  
Figure 5: Includes a screenshot of how Public Offerings descriptions can be added.  
Figure 6: Includes a screenshot of how Public Offerings management can be added.  
Figure 7: Includes a screenshot of how Public Offerings accounting components can be 
added.  
Figure 8: Includes a screenshot of how Public Offerings accounting plans can be added.  
Figure 9: Includes a screenshot of the Offering Review.  
Figure 10: Includes a screenshot of an offering being edited.  
Figure 11: Includes a screenshot of the Global Cloud Marketplace.  
Figure 12: Includes a screenshot of an example Offering that has been added to the 
marketplace.  
Figure 13: Includes a screenshot of an offering being purchased.  
Figure 14: Includes a screenshot of a deployed Resource.  
Figure 15: Includes a screenshot of the Order Details of a resource.  
Figure 16: Includes a screenshot of a mobile application designed for VirtEngine 
Identification.  
Figure 17: Includes a screenshot of Multi-Factor Authentication in action.  
Figure 18: Includes diagrams of the Waldur Architecture.  
Figure 19: Includes diagrams of the Waldur SLURM Diagrams.

8 
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF EMBODIMENTS 
Glossary: 
VirtEngine, VE, 100: Refers to the complete VirtEngine (100) application.  
VirtEngine Blockchain, VE Blockchain, 101: Refers to the custom built blockchain that 
contains the VirtEngine (100) system.  
Cosmos SDK, Cosmos, 102: Refers to the open source blockchain framework known as 
Cosmos SDK (102) 
VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace, VE Cloud Marketplace, VECMP, 103: Refers to the 
VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace module that integrates with the VirtEngine Waldur system.  
VirtEngine Identification, VirtEngine ID, VE Identification, VEID, 105: Refers to the 
VirtEngine Identification system handling User Sign ups, Identification, Verification, and 
Authentication.  
VirtEngine Supercomputer, VE Supercomputer, VESC, 106: Refers to the VirtEngine 
Supercomputer system that utilizes Distributed Computing to enable High Performance 
Compute.  
VirtEngine Waldur, VE Waldur, Waldur, 107: Refers to the Open Source Waldur Cloud 
Marketplace system.  
Tensorflow, 118: Refers to the open-source machine Learning platform built by Google 
called Tensorflow.  
OpenStack, 127: Refers to the open-source Cloud Management Platform known as 
OpenStack.  
Kubernetes, K8s, 128: Refers to the open-source Container Orchestration, Management and 
SLURM, 135, 136: Refers to the open-source High Performance Compute platform known as 
SLURM (Simple Linux Utility for Resource Management).  
The chosen tools to build VirtEngine (100) are not a necessity, they are interchangeable and 
have alternative systems that can be used in place. The tools that aid in building the 
VirtEngine (100) system are as follows: Python, Golang, Cosmos SDK (102), Waldur, 
Kubernetes, SLURM, OpenStack, Tensorflow. Alternative systems that can be used instead 
are as follows: 
Python/Golang -Any high-level programming language such as C#, NodeJS, C++, Java, and 
many more.  
Cosmos SDK (102) -Any blockchain framework that supports Proof-Of-Stake such as 
Substrate (Polkadot), EOS, and various open-source blockchains. A blockchain could also be 
built from scratch.

9 
Waldur, 107 -Building a similar Cloud Marketplace system as well as it's User Interface or 
implementing the Cloud Marketplace system within the blockchain modules and integrating 
with systems such as OpenStack directly.  
Kubernetes, 128 -Alternatives include simple Docker images or Infrastructure management 
systems such as Chef and Ansible.  
SLURM, 135, 136 -Alternatives include MOAB HPC Suite, The Portable Batch System, Open 
Grid Scheduler, Kubernetes and other systems that support scheduling computing tasks.  
OpenStack, 127 -Alternatives include VMWare, OpenNebula, and CloudStack and any 
system that supports virtualization such as KVM, OpenVZ, Xen, Hyper-V etc.  
Tensorflow -Alternatives include Machine Learning algorithms that support MTCNN and 
other Neural Networks such as PyTorch, Keras, Caffe, MXNet, and Darknet.  
The VirtEngine (100) system described includes the following components: 
• VirtEngine Blockchain 101, powered by Cosmos SDK (102). Provides a proof-of-stake 
and blockchain base for customization and development of necessary modules.  
* VirtEngine cloud marketplace, 103, powered by Waldur (107), which allows users to 
purchase cloud services from providers.  
• VirtEngine Identification system, 105, powered by TensorFlow ML, which allows 
users to verify their identities in a decentralized system to provide trust and 
validation when using the marketplace.  
* VirtEngine tokens, 104, which can be used to purchase services on the marketplace 
or exchanged for fiat currency through Cryptocurrency Exchanges.  
• Waldur, 107, a hybrid cloud management system that supports a variety of cloud 
computing integrations and has a modular design.  
* VirtEngine supercomputer, 106, a decentralized network of nodes that utilizes the 
SLURM workload manager to operate as a distributed supercomputer.  
• Authentication options include ledger accounts and non-custodial key management, 
which can be linked to password-less authentication systems. Authorization methods 
include MultiFactor Authentication to achieve additional account security.  
* Data encryption is based on third-party public keys, used to secure sensitive data 
such as order information, ID documents, support requests, and more.  
VirtEngine Identification System 
The VirtEngine ID system is a decentralized identity solution that utilizes blockchain 
technology to securely store and verify identity information. It allows users to create, 
manage, and control their own digital identity, which can be used to access various online 
services and resources. The VirtEngine ID system is built on top of a decentralized, open-

10 
source blockchain platform, which ensures that the identity information is stored in a secure 
and transparent manner.  
The VirtEngine ID system consists of several components, including: 
1. Identity Wallet: This is a digital wallet that allows users to store and manage their 
digital identity information, such as personal details, documents, and credentials.  
The wallet is secured by a private key, which only the user has access to.  
2. Identity Verification: This is a process that verifies the authenticity and accuracy of 
the identity information provided by the user. This can be done through various 
methods, such as facial recognition, document verification, and biometric 
authentication.  
3. Identity Services: These are online services and resources that use the VirtEngine ID 
system to verify and authenticate the identity of users. These services can include 
online banks, e-commerce platforms, and government agencies.  
4. Identity Network: This is the decentralized network of nodes that stores and 
processes the identity information on the blockchain. The network is secured by 
advanced cryptographic techniques and consensus algorithms, which ensure the 
integrity and security of the data.  
5. Identity Mobile Application: This is a mobile application within a hardware device 
that captures and verifies the identity of the user through facial recognition and 
other biometric authentication methods. The mobile app can be integrated with the 
Identity Wallet to provide an additional layer of security and method to upload and 
provide identity documentation and data to the system.  
The VEID System works by utilizing TensorFlow machine learning algorithms to identify 
users via various scopes. These scopes include Identity Documents, Biometric Data, Facial 
Data, Authorized Online Accounts (Single Sign On), Domain Verification, and Email 
Verification, among other scopes.  
A module will be built in Golang for the VEID system, to be integrated into the Cosmos SDK 
(102) base to be implemented within a decentralized Blockchain. Cosmos SDK (102) 
Supports Golang codebases, TensorFlow-GO is a Golang Application Programming Interface 
that will be used to connect TensorFlow with the Cosmos SDK (102) application.  
VEID works by scoring users between 0 to 100, 0 being an unknown identity and 100 being a 
completely verified user. Users will be able to verify their identity with a mobile app utilizing 
Camera for Document Uploads, Biometric sensors (fingerprint), Camera for Facial 
Recognition, along web scopes such as Single Sign On (Google, Facebook, Microsoft, etc.), 
Email Verification, SMS Verification, 2FA Authentication support. Users registering to 
become providers will need to verify their domain to join the VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace 
(103).  
VEID encodes generated keys by adding salt that are specific to each upload within the 
metadata of the image/video file, thus when uploaded to the blockchain it can be verified 
that it indeed gets processed and uploaded directly through the mobile's app camera 
integration. Preventing users from uploading verification data from saved galleries.

11 
VEID also collects the following list of parameters for the Al to process and make better 
scoring decisions: 
1. IP Address: The IP address of the user's device can be used to determine the user's 
location and to identify patterns of suspicious activity.  
2. Device information: Information about the user's device, such as the make, model, and 
operating system.  
3. Location data: The location of the user's device using GPS can be used to identify patterns 
of suspicious activity and to verify that the user is who they claim to be.  
4. Demographic data: Information about the user's age, gender, and other demographic 
characteristics may be collected and analysed to identify patterns of suspicious activity.  
5. Single Sign On metadata, metadata from accounts such as Google, Facebook or Microsoft 
can assist in identifying customers.  
6. Social Media data: VEID can collect and analyse social media profiles via third party 
services.  
7. Government Agencies: VEID can connect and process data from specific government 
agencies to further secure the system from fraud in select countries with digital systems.  
The VirtEngine Identification System will be an extension towards the Authentication 
module inside Cosmos SDK (102), the authentication module will be extended to support 
the verification of customer identities utilizing direct API integrations with Tensorflow.  
For Tensorflow to verify the identity of its users, it will need to process encrypted data 
uploaded to the blockchain. Once a user uploads their ID Scopes (in an encrypted manner) 
to the blockchain, the Identity Verification system running on the Identity Network will 
decrypt the data via the Identity Network's chosen node's private keys to complete the 
verification.  
1. Detect faces on images.  
2. Compute faces' descriptors/embeddings.  
3. Compare descriptors.  
A Tensorflow algorithm which utilizes the Multi-task Cascaded Convolution Network 
(MTCNN) can be used for facial recognition and allows comparison of facial data between 
Uploaded Identification Documents & Uploaded Facial Recognition information.  
Other types of Neural Networks that can be implemented in Tensorflow and be used to 
assist Identification of consumers includes convolutional neural networks (CNNs), long 
short-term memory (LSTM) networks, and generative adversarial networks (GANs).  
Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs) are often used for image classification tasks and can 
be trained to recognize specific features in images, such as facial features or text.

12 
Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks are a type of recurrent neural network that can 
process sequential data, such as text or time series data. They can be used to analyze 
patterns in user behavior or language to identify fraudulent activity.  
Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) are a type of neural network that consists of two 
networks: a generator and a discriminator. The generator creates synthetic samples, while 
the discriminator determines whether the samples are real or fake. GANs can be used to 
generate synthetic images or text that can be used to train other neural networks.  
Optical Character Recognition can be used to convert text inside documents to machine
readable information, this data can be analyzed by the other neural networks to decide on 
the users score. To ensure that the optical character recognition system is not bypassed 
with faulty data, the system verifies the signatures of the uploaded files to ensure that they 
have been processed by an approved client and contain both the approved client (interface) 
signature and the user's signature. The list of approved clients can be controlled in the 
blockchain's configuration and ensures that only pre-approved interfaces may interact with 
the blockchain and pass on identity documents during the sign-up process.  
Barcode Scanning technology can be used to revalidate the data written on Identification 
Documents such as Driver's Licenses and Photocards.  
Other types of neural networks that may be used for identity verification include 
autoencoders, which can be used to identify anomalies in data, and self-organizing maps, 
which can be used to cluster data and identify patterns.  
Utilizing a combination of such Networks built on Tensorflow can provide the required 
automated identification of users on the VirtEngine network, by collecting Meta Data from 
the user's device (such as IPv4, GPS Data, Device Information, etc.) and Email Verification, 
SMS Verification and Single-Sign-On Systems such as Google, Facebook, and Microsoft. By 
combining these scopes, we can recognize a user's identity through an automated 
Artificially Intelligent algorithm to achieve Decentralized Identification within a blockchain 
system.  
Combining multiple neural networks together can be done through a process known as 
ensemble learning, where multiple neural network models are trained and their predictions 
are combined in some way to make a final prediction. This can improve the performance of 
the overall model by leveraging the strengths of different types of models.  
VirtEngine Identification system can be integrated into the Cosmos SDK (102) within the 
authentication module by leveraging the existing framework for handling accounts and 
account keys, defining a new module to handle the specific functions of the VirtEngine 
Identification system, and implementing the necessary handler and query functions. This 
will allow software engineers to easily incorporate the VirtEngine Identification system into 
their Cosmos SDK (102) applications and build secure, decentralized identity management 
systems.  
The module should implement the InitGenesis and ExportGenesis functions to initialize and 
persist the state of the VirtEngine Identification system within the Cosmos SDK (102). This

13 
will involve storing the necessary data, such as encrypted identity documents and verified 
identities, in the module's state.  
The module should also define a set of handler functions to handle the various message 
types defined in the module. These functions should be responsible for updating the state of 
the VirtEngine Identification system and performing any necessary validations or checks.  
The module should define a set of query functions to allow users to retrieve data from the 
VirtEngine Identification system, such as identity verification status or encrypted identity 
documents. These functions should utilize the Cosmos SDK (102)'s query interface to allow 
for easy integration with other modules and applications.  
The VirtEngine Identification module in Cosmos SDK (102) can be integrated with 
Tensorflow Al by utilizing the Tensorflow library in the module's codebase. This can be done 
by importing the Tensorflow library and utilizing its functions to process the data from the 
VirtEngine Identification system. For example, the module can use Tensorflow to analyze 
and classify the data from the identification system, such as by using Tensorflow's machine 
learning capabilities to identify patterns and trends in the data. The module can also use 
Tensorflow to perform tasks such as data cleansing, data transformation, and data 
preprocessing, all of which can be essential for ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the 
VirtEngine Identification system. Additionally, the module can use Tensorflow to perform 
real-time analysis of the data, allowing it to provide real-time and automated verification to 
users of the VirtEngine Identification system.  
The CRAFT (Character Region Awareness for Text Detection) method is a state-of-the-art 
technique for text detection in images. It focuses on detecting individual characters and 
then grouping them to form words or text regions. The craft-text-detector library is an 
implementation of the CRAFT method, which can be used to identify regions of interest in 
an image before applying Optical Character Recognition (OCR) for text extraction. This has 
been tested and has worked successfully.  
Example Algorithim Flow for Identification System 
Face Detection: Utilising advanced facial recognition algorithms, the system first scans the 
input image at varying rotation angles. The objective here is twofold: to detect the presence 
of a face, indicative of the orientation of the ID, and to record the rotation angle at which 
this face was detected. This probabilistic approach ensures that the ID is oriented correctly 
regardless of its initial position.  
Image Rotation: Post face detection, the system identifies the rotation angle where the 
probability of a face being detected is maximised. Using this optimal angle, the original 
image undergoes a rotation transformation. This ensures that any subsequent processing 
occurs on an image that is oriented in a standardised fashion.  
Perspective Transformation & Cropping: With the image now appropriately oriented, it is 
paramount to adjust for any inherent skew or tilt. A perspective transformation is applied, 
ensuring the ID's text is perfectly horizontal, which is a prerequisite for optimal text

14 
detection. Once the image is aligned, the section specifically containing the identification 
details is isolated and cropped, reducing computational overhead in subsequent steps.  
Text Detection with CRAFT: The cropped section of the image is relayed to the CRAFT model.  
Renowned for its text detection capabilities, CRAFT produces a detailed character density 
map. This map elucidates the coordinates of various text boxes, demarcating regions of 
textual data.  
UNET Processing for Box Detection: The character density map is not the terminus. It serves 
as an input to the UNET model, a neural network known for its segmentation capabilities.  
UNET diligently processes this map to pinpoint masks corresponding to four pivotal data 
regions: Identity Number, First Name, Last Name, and Date of Birth.  
Centre Position Ratio Calculation: Akin to a calibration step, the system calculates the ratio 
of the centre positions of the boxes detected by CRAFT in relation to the overall image 
dimensions. This computational step is pivotal as it ensures a standardised and precise 
alignment of detected text boxes, a foundation for accurate text extraction.  
Orientation Adjustment with UNET Output: Harnessing the UNET output, the system 
discerns the orientation angle of the detected lines. If this angle exceeds a predefined 
threshold, it suggests an orientation anomaly. The system promptly rotates the RGB image 
to rectify this, ensuring textual data is horizontally aligned. This corrected image is then 
looped back to CRAFT for refined text detection.  
Box Matching: Precision is the linchpin here. The algorithm matches the four boxes 
identified on the segmentation mask with the analogous boxes on the ID card. This 
validation step ensures data fidelity, guaranteeing that each box truly represents its 
designated section.  
Multiple Box Detection: CRAFT's granularity can lead to the detection of multiple boxes, 
especially for individuals with extended names or surnames. The system is designed to 
accommodate this. It detects and segregates these additional boxes, ensuring that each 
name component is accurately represented and extracted.  
Box Coordinate Update: Post detection, there's an imperative to ensure the entirety of the 
text is encapsulated within the detected boxes. To achieve this, the box coordinates are 
meticulously extended. These refined boxes, now encompassing all textual details, are 
ushered into the OCR stage.  
Text Extraction with Tesseract OCR: The piece de resistance is the Optical Character 
Recognition (OCR) stage. But prior to text extraction, the system undergoes a noise removal 
phase. This phase, employing advanced digital filters, ensures noise-free, clear textual 
regions. Post this, Tesseract OCR, a state-of-the-art text recognition engine, is summoned to 
extract pertinent details like name, surname, identification number, and date of birth with 
unparalleled accuracy.

15 
Authentication 
The implemented blockchain authentication system allows users to securely access and 
manage their accounts on the platform. It offers multiple options for authentication, 
including the use of ledger accounts and non-custodial key management. Ledger accounts 
involve the use of a unique combination of a username and password to access an account.  
Non-custodial key management involves the use of a third-party service, such as Google or 
Microsoft single sign-on, to authenticate the user. Multifactor authentication is used to 
verify the identity of clients accessing the platform, multifactor authentication provides 
users with the ability to verify their identity prior to executing sensitive transactions and can 
be configured depending on the security level the user wants to achieve -certain sensitive 
transactions (such as account recovery and processing transactions) can be secured with 
multiple levels of multifactor authentication (combination of SMS, Facial Recognition, Secret 
Keys). This level of multifactor authentication protects leaked Secret Keys from processing 
sensitive transactions and can be used to access locked accounts.  
Creating a new account on VirtEngine generates a mnemonic seed, which is a series of 
words that can be used to log in to various wallets and manage the account. The mnemonic 
seed is an alternative to a private key and contains the solution to the private key through 
mathematical equations.  
Authentication can be achieved through multiple options including Ledger Accounts, and 
Non-Custodial Key Management (which can be linked to password-less auth such as Google, 
and Facebook SSO and Active Directory Systems such as Azure AD, as well as Open-Source 
Variants).  
Genesis accounts on VirtEngine have special permissions to access the admin portal and 
nominate service providers, support staff, and other administrators. They can also disable 
standard user accounts to prevent fraud and manage the platform.  
A Genesis block is the initial block created with the initial user accounts and can be used as a 
method to differentiate Administrators that are operating the blockchain from standard 
users.  
To ensure the security and privacy of sensitive data, VirtEngine uses data encryption based 
on third-party public keys. This means that only the intended recipient can decrypt the 
information using their private key. Sensitive data on VirtEngine includes order information, 
ID documents, support requests, resource details, account settings, and owned 
organizations. Only authorized user accounts can access this data, and it is encrypted in 
transit and at rest to prevent unauthorized access.  
If a user were to lose access to his account through unauthorized access of his private keys, 
the user can nominate to setup a new private key utilizing multifactor authentication.  
Modification of multifactor authentication requires the user to also verify his identity with 
multifactor authentication or go through the identity process again.  
List of MultiFactor Authentication Options (Figure 45):

16 
• SMS Code (Text Format) 
• Call Code (Audio Format) 
• FIDO2 Hardware Key 
• FIDO2 Passwordless Authentication (Biometric Fingerprints, FacelD -Device Locked 
protection) -Only pre-authorized devices 
• VEID Facial Bioemetrics 
• Trusted Browser 
• 2FA Authenticator Protocol (Google Authenticator, Microsoft Authenticator) 
• Certificate or Hardware Key 
MultiFactor takes 2 Factor Authentication a step further by ensuring that the user has 
access to multiple scopes -and can limit the user by requiring them to verify an additional 
2FA Scope -such as a combination of SMS + FIDO2, or a combination of VEID + FIDO2 in 
order to authenticate and sign sensitive transactions. A user may choose to trust the 
browser which would reduce the multifactor requirement by a single scope for further 
transactions done by that browser.  
Hybrid Blockchain System 
It is possible to use a single blockchain system with both public and permissioned access.  
This can be achieved through the use of a hybrid blockchain, which combines elements of 
both public and permissioned blockchains.  
A hybrid blockchain is a type of blockchain that is designed to allow both public and 
permissioned access to the network and to the data stored on the blockchain. In a hybrid 
blockchain, access to the network is granted based on predetermined rules or criteria. This 
can include things like user identity, role, or jurisdiction. Users who meet these criteria are 
allowed to join the network and participate in the consensus process.  
There are several ways to use a hybrid blockchain with both public and permissioned access: 
Public access to certain data: A hybrid blockchain can allow public access to certain data 
stored on the blockchain, while restricting access to other data. For example, a hybrid 
blockchain could allow anyone to view the transaction history of a particular asset, while 
only allowing authorized parties to view the details of the transactions.  
Public participation in the consensus process: A hybrid blockchain can allow public 
participation in the consensus process, while also allowing permissioned parties to 
participate. This can help to ensure that the network is secure and that transactions are 
validated by a diverse group of users.  
Permissioned access to certain data: A hybrid blockchain can allow permissioned access to 
certain data stored on the blockchain, while restricting access to other data. For example, a 
hybrid blockchain could allow authorized parties to view sensitive data, such as personal or 
financial information, while only allowing public access to less sensitive data.

17 
VirtEngine relies on a Hybrid Blockchain to operate, the following main roles are 
implemented within the system -GenesisAccount, Administrator, Moderator, Staker, 
ServiceProvider, Customer, SupportAgent.  
GenesisAccount: Has uncontrolled access to the whole ledger, however can only decode 
data on the ledger that they have the private keys to. The majority of the system would be 
encrypted and cannot be accessed by the GenesisAccount, however the GenesisAccount has 
the ability to nominate Roles for other user accounts, as well as administrate user accounts 
by changing their account states to suspended, terminated, active, as well as controlling 
cloud marketplace (103) listings by changing their states.  
Administrator: Has access to a large portion of the blockchain ledger to administrate the 
system -is also limited in that they cannot read private encrypted data from customers 
data, can nominate other accounts for different roles such as Moderators and 
ServiceProviders. Can control user account states to manage them as well as controlling 
cloud marketplace (103) listing states.  
Moderators: Has access to moderating the system, has access to Support Requests 
submitted to the maintainers of the platform -can raise requests directly to administrators 
for further review.  
ServiceProvider: Has access to list Cloud Computing services to the marketplace, can 
approve/reject customer orders, can suspend customer services, can leave public reviews 
on customer accounts, can report fraudulent activity to moderators/administrators of the 
platform.  
Customer: Has access to purchase Cloud Computing services from ServiceProvider listings, 
has access to purchase High Performance Compute services from the VE Supercomputer can 
leave public review on purchased services, can cancel or delete existing orders under their 
account, can raise support requests directly to ServiceProvider related to purchased 
services. Can raise support requests to Moderators & Administrators of the platform.  
SupportAgents: Has access to support requests on services listed by a ServiceProvider who 
has added them to their organization.  
Staker: Staker accounts can be used to join the Proof-Of-Stake network for handling 
transactions on the VirtEngine Blockchain, Staker accounts use the following method to 
operate the network.  
1. Users who want to participate in the consensus process and earn rewards must first 
hold a certain amount of the VE Tokens that is used on the network. This is known as 
the staking requirement -the staking requirements is only required for users looking 
to run their own staking node.  
2. Users can then "stake" their VE Tokens by committing it to the network as collateral.  
This involves locking up their cryptocurrency in a special wallet or account that is 
designated for staking.

18 
3. Users can either stake their VE Tokens in a staking node run by an organization with 
shared wallet, or to setup their own node and run their own staking server with their 
own wallet and collateral.  
4. The network then selects the users who will participate in the consensus process 
based on the amount of cryptocurrency that they have staked. In general, users with 
larger stakes have a higher probability of being selected to validate transactions and 
earn rewards.  
5. Once a user is selected to participate in the consensus process, they are responsible 
for validating transactions on the network and helping to reach consensus on the 
state ofthe blockchain.  
6. If the user successfully participates in the consensus process and helps to secure the 
network, they will earn rewards in the form of cryptocurrency 
The staking network also operates the Identity Network, which means that the nodes that 
handle transaction consensus are also used for verifying and identifying customer data such 
as ID Documents, etc. via the same Tensorflow algorithms and trained dataset -they are 
chosen the same way transactions are generally chosen via the consensus process.  
For Data Encryption to work in a public blockchain, ensuring sensitive data is not stored in a 
public ledger -but instead can only be read by its intended participants. Messages between 
Providers and Users for example are encrypted based on the Third Parties Public Keys, one 
way encryption occurs in which only the third party can decrypt the information using their 
Private Keys. This is in conjunction with the Hybrid Blockchain, for example only certain 
roles can access certain data that is already encrypted. Meaning even if somehow a user 
where to bypass the role permissions and access such sensitive data, they will also need to 
have access to the Secret Keys that the data was encrypted for.  
Examples of Data Encryption: 
The examples provided below are not a full list of all the different scenarios that encryption 
occurs when sending data to the ledger, when building the system, you would need to 
identify whether the data being sent to the ledger is considered sensitive or not. Sensitive 
data then needs to be encrypted in a way that only the authorized user may access and read 
such data.  
User uploading Identification Documentation: Encrypted to the IdentityNetwork chosen 
node via Staking System, which can then be decrypted and processed by Identity System 
nodes using their own private key to process the Identification Verification methods.  
User sending an order to a ServiceProvider: Encrypted to the ServiceProvider's Public Key, 
which can then be decrypted and processed by the ServiceProvider.  
Order approved by ServiceProvider and being deployed on OpenStack: The Cloud 
Marketplace (103) system will handle the deployment of the Order, however can only 
access the necessary API Secrets for the ServiceProvider's listing using the ServiceProvider's

19 
own Encryption keys to decode and process the required API calls to VirtEngine Waldur.  
ServiceProvider's can run their own staking nodes which will have access to their 
SecretKey's, when a transaction that requires the ServiceProvider's key is to be processed 
the validator will first process the transaction via Consensus regularly -then flow the data 
to the ServiceProvider's node to process the transaction through the ServiceProvider's 
Staking Node.  
Order Deployed and Delivered to Customer: The Order details, such as the VM IPv4, State, 
and other relevant/secret information will be encrypted towards the Customer's Public Key, 
thus only the customer is able to decrypt and retrieve the deployed order.  
Sensitive Data include Order Information, ID Documents, Support Requests, Resource 
Details, Account Settings, Owned Organizations, Team Members, Audit Logs, Account 
Details, Settings, Verified Identity details, etc.  
Only user accounts or authorized systems that are intended to read this data will be able to 
decrypt the information using their private keys.  
Blockchain can be used as a secure database for sensitive data using encryption. In a 
blockchain system, data is encrypted using a public key and can only be decrypted using the 
corresponding private key. This means that only the intended recipient, who has the private 
key, can decrypt and read the data.  
Another way to use blockchain as a secure database for sensitive data is to use a 
permissioned blockchain, where only authorized users are allowed to access the data stored 
on the blockchain. This can be achieved using access control lists or by requiring users to 
present a valid digital certificate to access the data.  
Overall, the use of encryption and access controls can help ensure that sensitive data stored 
on a blockchain is secure and can only be accessed by the intended recipient.  
VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace 103 
The VirtEngine cloud marketplace (103) consists of the following components: 
1. VirtEngine Waldur: a modular open-source hybrid cloud management system that 
allows multi-cloud integration, including private cloud, public cloud, HPC, and service 
desk.  
2. VirtEngine Tokens: a cryptocurrency used to pay for services on the marketplace, 
which can be prefunded or purchased on the spot through a partner exchange.  
3. Provider and user accounts: providers can offer services on the marketplace, while 
users can purchase these services and access sensitive data such as order 
information, ID documents, and support requests.  
4. Data encryption: sensitive data is encrypted based on third party public keys, and 
only authorized user accounts can access and decrypt this data.

20 
5. Integration with various cloud platforms: VirtEngine Waldur supports integrations 
with various private and public cloud platforms, HPC systems, and identity and 
service desk systems.  
6. User interface: VirtEngine Waldur provides a user interface for users to interact with 
the marketplace.  
7. Custom modules: Waldur allows the development of custom modules to carry out 
specific tasks, including communication with the VirtEngine blockchain.  
8. Public ledger: VirtEngine Waldur supports storing public information on a public 
ledger, including provider and user accounts, offerings, and support requests.  
9. Sensitive data storage: only authorized user accounts can access sensitive data such 
as provider offerings and support requests, which is encrypted in transit and at rest.  
10. Genesis accounts: these special accounts have access to the admin portal and can 
nominate service providers, support staff, and other administrators, as well as disable 
standard user accounts to prevent fraud and manage the platform.  
The VirtEngine cloud marketplace (103) utilizes VirtEngine Waldur (OpenNode Waldur 
Collaboration) codebase to facilitate cloud services between customers and providers.  
Waldur is a modular open-source hybrid cloud marketplace system that provides multi
cloud integration. Waldur currently supports a wide variety of integrations via its Plugin 
System.  
Providers can offer services based on integrations such as Private Cloud, Public Cloud, HPC, 
and Service Desk utilizing the Marketplace system. Currently, Waldur supports PayPal for 
billing. Within VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace 103, currencies such as USD/AUD/EUR would 
automatically be converted to VirtEngine Tokens when services are ordered through the VE 
Marketplace through a partner exchange or a decentralized exchange such as Uniswap. This 
automatic conversion of VE Tokens enables users to purchase services outside the 
VirtEngine marketplace utilizing VE Tokens via a payment processing system such as Visa or 
Mastercard.  
VirtEngine Tokens can either be pre-funded into user accounts or purchased on the spot via 
an Exchange System and live price guides.  
Providers, Validators (Stakers), and Network Participants will receive rewards in VirtEngine 
Tokens, these tokens can then be exchanged for a FIAT Currency such as USD through a 
partner exchange or spent to purchase other services from the marketplace.  
VirtEngine's Waldur platform supports the following integrations, providing direct 
implementations for any Infrastructure, Platform, HPC, and other Services rendered through 
the Decentralized Cloud Marketplace 103.

21 
The current integrations supported by VirtEngine Waldur include: 
Private Cloud: OpenStack, Kubernetes (Rancher), VMWare, OpenNebula (in development) 
Public Cloud: AWS, DigitalOcean, MS Azure 
HPC: MOAB, SLURM, Open OnDemand 
Identity: Keycloak, EduGAIN, LDAP, SAML, Waldur Database 
Service Desk: Atlassian Jira Service Desk, Zammad Ticketing System 
Marketplace: Waldur In-Built Marketplace 
Billing: PayPal, Waldur Billing 
Automation: Ansible 
Waldur is an advanced system that can be used to build complex Cloud Computing 
marketplaces, the goal of VirtEngine is to integrate the Waldur codebase into the Cosmos 
SDK (102) to run a decentralized version of Waldur within blockchain technology. Waldur 
will be integrated into Cosmos SDK (102) by porting the Cloud Marketplace codebase to 
within the blockchain project via API Interactions between the VirtEngine Blockchain and a 
localized Waldur API running within a Docker container.  
Waldur offers a User Interface system that allows users to interact with the decentralized 
Cloud Marketplace system. This User Interface will be a port for users to register and utilize 
the system from an easy-to-use User Interface.  
Waldur is a modular system and allows the development of custom modules to carry out 
specific tasks. A new module within Cosmos SDK (102) will be built to enable communication 
between Waldur and the VirtEngine Blockchain through API calls. Waldur will continue to 
run with its own database however will support public information downloaded from a 
public ledger, which includes Providers, User Accounts, Offerings, Support Requests, and 
more.  
Sensitive data that should only be accessed by Administrators will be encrypted via Genesis 
accounts which run the staking network, only such nodes will be able to access sensitive 
encrypted data such as Provider Offerings details, Support Requests, Uploaded Identity 
scopes, to automate the platform via the Waldur Mastermind codebase.  
VirtEngine Supercomputer 
The VirtEngine Supercomputer consists of the following components: 
* A decentralized network of nodes 
* SLURM workload manager 
• Kubernetes clusters 
* Golang module within Cosmos SDK (102)

22 
* Multiple computers connected over WAN or LAN 
* Clustering of closely connected computing systems based on location & latency.  
* Blockchain technology 
* Rewards system in VirtEngine tokens 
* Integration with VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace codebase to automate deployments 
of HPC Clusters via Kubernetes 
* Accessible via VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace to schedule and pass on computing 
tasks.  
* Custom module for communication with Cosmos SDK (102) 
* Encryption of sensitive data 
* Data encrypted in transit and at rest 
The VirtEngine Supercomputer is a decentralized network of nodes that integrate the 
SLURM workload manager to operate a decentralized Supercomputer, SLURM will be 
deployed across nodes within Kubernetes clusters from the VirtEngine marketplace. As the 
VirtEngine marketplace grows there will be more available resources towards the 
Decentralized SLURM Clusters.  
Blockchain computing allows running parallel codebases across multiple independent 
nodes, this allows us to facilitate automated deployments of SLURM workload nodes and 
add them to existing clusters to build the largest global Decentralized SLURM Compute 
marketplace.  
A golang module will be implemented within the Cosmos SDK (102) to facilitate automated 
SLURM deployment and integration within the node that joins the mining network. This 
golang module will also facilitate rewards for the node that is offering its compute to the 
network.  
It is generally accepted that a supercomputer is faster than a distributed computing network 
of the same size. This is because a supercomputer has all its components (e.g., processors, 
memory, etc.) located in a single location and connected by a high-speed local network. This 
allows for faster communication and data transfer between components, which results in 
faster overall performance.  
On the other hand, a distributed computing network is made up of multiple computers 
located in different locations that are connected over a wide area network (WAN). The WAN 
connection may not be as fast as the local network used in a supercomputer, which can 
result in slower communication and data transfer between the computers in the network.  
However, a distributed computing network has much higher scalability due to the fact it is 
not constrained by a single geographical environment -meaning that the overall computing 
power can easily exceed any existing supercomputer with ease.

23 
Due to the geographical limitation of supercomputers, we believe that a Distributed 
Computing network built on blockchain can easily exceed the computing power available 
within the current supercomputing architecture.  
VirtEngine supercomputer would also support the clustering of closely connected 
computing systems to build mini supercomputers within the overall distributed computing 
network -this can be used to schedule compute-intensive tasks within clusters that can 
communicate through a higher-speed network more effectively.  
Patent Request: 
Technical Innovation, the VirtEngine technical model of combining a Decentralized 
Identification System, a Decentralized Cloud Marketplace and a Decentralized 
Supercomputer is a novel and unique system that have been submitted into the patent 
system for protection.  
This technical innovation allows us to deploy an autonomous business model using such an 
enclosed technical system that requires minimal intervention from the DET-lO Pty. Ltd.  
Team once deployed if VirtEngine & dependent codebases are maintained and further 
improved over time through the open-source model. The VirtEngine codebase will be 
released as Open Source under an Australian Creative Commons license with no 
commercialization allowed.  
VirtEngine involves a physical aspect in that the software runs on multiple independent 
physical computing systems to achieve the desired outcome, for example, Cloud Computing 
services run on specialized Physical Servers to virtualize the environment and provide 
Virtual Computing to users.  
The distributed computing network relies on Virtual & Physical computing to provide access 
to High-Performance-Computing to its users. The Identification system relies on mobile 
computing to verify the identities of users through cameras and fingerprint sensors.  
Reproducing VirtEngine 
Develop the VE Authentication & Encryption Modules: 
1. Implement a secure login system using ledger accounts or non-custodial key 
management, linked to password-less authentication systems such as Google, 
Facebook, and Microsoft single sign-on.  
2. Generate a mnemonic seed for new accounts, which can be used to log in to various 
wallets and manage their account.  
3. Implement a system for granting permissions to Genesis accounts to access the 
admin portal, nominate service providers and support staff, and disable standard 
user accounts.  
4. Implement data encryption using third-party public keys, allowing only the intended 
recipients to decrypt the information using their private keys.

24 
5. Implement a system for restricting access to sensitive data, including order 
information, ID documents, support requests, resource details, account settings, and 
owned organizations, to an authorized user, accounts only using public encryption 
keys from the desired recipient.  
6. Implement security measures to ensure that sensitive data is encrypted in transit 
and at rest.  
Develop the VEID Module: 
Train & Implement the Machine Learning algorithms: 
1. Data collection: The first step in training a machine learning model is to gather a 
large dataset of examples. For an identification system, this might include a variety 
of documents such as driver's licenses, passport, or other forms of identification. It is 
important to have a diverse and representative dataset in order to ensure that the 
model is able to accurately identify individuals from a wide range of backgrounds 
and locations.  
2. Data pre-processing: Once the data has been collected, it must be cleaned and pre
processed in order to make it usable for training the model. This may involve tasks 
such as removing duplicate or corrupted records, standardizing the format of the 
data, or filling in missing values.  
3. Splitting the data into training and test sets: In order to evaluate the performance of 
the model, it is necessary to split the dataset into a training set and a test set. The 
training set is used to train the model, while the test set is used to evaluate the 
model's performance on unseen data.  
4. Feature engineering: In order to help the model learn patterns in the data, it may be 
necessary to extract features from the raw data. This might involve extracting 
information such as the age, gender, or nationality of an individual from their 
identification documents.  
5. Model training: Once the data has been prepared, it can be used to train the 
machine learning model. This typically involves feeding the data to the model and 
adjusting the model's internal parameters in order to minimize the error between 
the model's predictions and the true labels of the data.  
6. Model evaluation: Once the model has been trained, it is important to evaluate its 
performance on the test set in order to determine how well it will generalize to new 
data. This might involve calculating metrics such as accuracy, precision, or recall.  
7. Model fine-tuning: Based on the results of the model evaluation, it may be necessary 
to fine-tune the model by adjusting its parameters or adding additional layers to the 
model. This process may be repeated until the model achieves the desired level of 
performance.

25 
8. Model deployment: Once the model has been trained and fine-tuned, it can be 
deployed in a production environment where it can be used to automate the 
verification of user identities.  
Implement the VEID Module with the Machine Learning algorithm: 
1. Develop a machine learning algorithm using TensorFlow that can accurately identify 
users based on various scopes, such as identity documents, biometric data, and 
facial recognition.  
2. Create a mobile app that allows users to verify their identity using the camera on 
their device to scan documents, access biometric sensors, and perform facial 
recognition.  
3. Integrate the VEID system with web scopes, such as Single Sign On (SSO) and 
email/SMS verification, to further verify the user's identity.  
4. Integrate the VEID system with other web scopes such as Government Agency 
integrations, and Social Media data collection systems.  
5. Implement an SMS/Email verification process that allows users to verify their email's 
and SMS number's.  
6. Implement a domain verification process for users who want to register as providers 
on the VirtEngine marketplace.  
7. Build a golang module for the VEID system that can be integrated into the Cosmos 
SDK (102) blockchain application. This module will use TensorFlow-GO to connect 
the TensorFlow trained machine learning algorithms with Cosmos SDK (102).  
8. Extend the authentication module within Cosmos SDK (102) to support the 
verification of customer identities using the VEID system's API integrations with 
TensorFlow.  
9. Allow users to upload encrypted versions of their identification scopes to the 
blockchain. The TensorFlow module will then decrypt this data using the Genesis 
Private Key.  
10. Score users on a scale from 0 to 100, with 0 being an unknown identity and 100 
being a fully verified user.  
11. Use the TensorFlow algorithm to combine all of these scopes and recognize a user's 
identity through an automated, artificial intelligence-based process, achieving 
decentralized identification within the blockchain system.  
Develop the VE Provider Daemon Module: 
1. Developing a distributed computing network using blockchain technology to 
facilitate the deployment and management of computing resources from multiple 
providers.

26 
2. Implementing a bid engine that queries for existing orders on the blockchain and 
places bids on behalf of the configured provider based on configured selling prices 
for resources.  
3. Implementing code for interacting with clusters of servers offered by the provider, 
such as support for Kubernetes as a backend cluster management solution.  
4. Developing a command line utility using the Cobra library to wrap the rest of the 
code and facilitate buildability.  
5. Declaring pubsub events and implementing necessary code for the provider to take 
action on won leases and received manifests.  
6. Implementing handler code for the REST server exposed by the provider to allow 
communication with the VirtEngine platform and other providers.  
7. Developing code for parsing and handling manifests, including support for different 
manifest formats and the ability to deploy orders on behalf of users.  
8. Implementing key management code for provider transaction signing, including 
support for Ledger accounts and non-custodial key management systems.  
9. Implementing code for tracking and reporting provider metrics and usage data to the 
VirtEngine platform.  
10. Integrating the VirtEngine API and other relevant external APIs to allow for 
automation and integration with third-party tools.  
Develop the VE Cloud Marketplace (103) System: 
1. Set up a distributed computing network using blockchain technology to facilitate 
communication between providers, validators, and network participants. This 
network would be used to store and transmit data related to provider offerings, user 
accounts, and support requests.  
2. Integrate the VirtEngine Waldur codebase into the Cosmos SDK (102) to run a 
decentralized version of Waldur within the blockchain. This would allow for the 
creation of a decentralized cloud marketplace and enable communication between 
Waldur and the VirtEngine blockchain via API interactions.  
3. Develop a custom module to communicate with the Cosmos SDK (102) and enable 
communication between Waldur and the VirtEngine blockchain. This module would 
allow Waldur to access public information from the public ledger, such as provider 
offerings and user accounts, and to automate the platform using the Waldur 
Mastermind codebase.  
4. Use Genesis accounts to encrypt sensitive data such as provider offerings and 
support requests. Only nodes with access to these Genesis accounts would be able 
to decrypt and access this sensitive data, ensuring that it is only accessible to 
authorized administrators. Encrypt provider's sensitive data based on the provider's

27 
encryption keys (API Secrets), Encrypt Customer sensitive data (resource, 
organization data) using the Customer's keys.  
5. Set up a user interface using the Waldur codebase to allow users to easily register 
and interact with the decentralized cloud marketplace. This interface would provide 
a user-friendly way for users to access and utilize the system.  
6. Implement various integrations, such as private cloud, public cloud, HPC, and service 
desk offerings, to allow providers to offer a wide range of services through the 
VirtEngine marketplace.  
7. Implement a billing system using Waldur or a partner system such as PayPal to 
facilitate payments for services rendered through the marketplace.  
8. Use VirtEngine tokens as a medium of exchange within the marketplace, allowing 
users to purchase services using these tokens or to exchange them for fiat currency 
through a partnerexchange.  
Develop the VirtEngine Supercomputer system 
1. Implement a decentralized network of nodes that can communicate with each other 
over a WAN. This can be achieved by using a blockchain platform such as Cosmos 
SDK (102), which allows for decentralized communication between nodes.  
2. Integrate the SLURM workload manager into the decentralized network of nodes.  
SLURM is a popular open-source workload manager that can be used to manage the 
allocation of resources and job scheduling within a cluster.  
3. Implement a system that can deploy SLURM across nodes within Kubernetes 
clusters. Kubernetes is a popular container orchestration platform that can be used 
to manage the deployment and scaling of containerized applications. By deploying 
SLURM within Kubernetes clusters, we can ensure that the workload manager has 
access to the resources it needs to operate effectively.  
4. Implement a golang module within the Cosmos SDK (102) to facilitate automated 
SLURM deployment and integration. This module would be responsible for 
automating the process of deploying SLURM workload nodes and adding them to 
existing clusters within the VirtEngine marketplace.  
5. Use the golang module to facilitate rewards for nodes that are offering their 
compute resources to the network. This can be achieved by implementing a reward 
system within the golang module that distributes VirtEngine tokens to nodes based 
on their contribution to the network.  
6. Implement a system for clustering closely connected computing systems to build 
mini supercomputers within the overall distributed computing network. This can be 
achieved by using tools such as Kubernetes to manage the deployment and scaling of 
containerized applications within the mini supercomputers.

28 
7. Use the VirtEngine supercomputer to schedule compute-intensive tasks within 
clusters that can communicate through a higher speed network more effectively.  
This can be achieved by using the SLURM workload manager to allocate resources 
and manage job scheduling within the clusters.  
Integrations: 
For VirtEngine to function with all three components, they need to be integrated in various 
ways. The VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace is dependent on the Identification System as 
providers and users will need a way to verify the other party, whom they are dealing with to 
avoid fraudulent use. The identification system allows parties to leave feedback for each 
other based on their experience, this means users can leave public reviews and feedback for 
providers while providers can add fraudulent users to blacklists and leave public feedback 
on their accounts for other providers.  
The VirtEngine Supercomputer is dependent on the VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace as it 
needs Infrastructure-as-a-Service to deploy & manage SLURM clusters via its Platform-as-a
Service system, SLURM clusters are deployed across providers within the VirtEngine Cloud 
Marketplace while mining nodes are added as compute nodes daemon to existing SLURM 
Workload clusters.  
The VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace is also dependent on a benchmarking daemon that runs 
within added cloud computing clusters to collect metric data and transparently store it 
within the VirtEngine Blockchain to help users decide between providers and transparently 
compares public metrics available.  
Blockchain Transactions: 
VirtEngine utilizes the Proof-of-Stake model to handle transactions within its blockchain, in 
comparison to Proof-of-Work networks the power required to run the network is minimal.  
Proof-of-Stake allows users with the largest shares in stake to handle transactions within the 
network. The more a user has staked in the network the larger his investment is, which 
provides a secure way to run a blockchain network as these users need to ensure the 
validity of the blockchain for other users to trust the system. Generally, a user with a large 
investment will want to ensure his investment is secure and will be a good actor, other users 
with large stakes can also ban bad actors from participating within the staking model.  
Cosmos SDK (102) (Blockchain Framework): 
Cosmos SDK (102) comes with a module system that allows developers to implement 
custom application logic. VESC, VEID, and VECMP can all be built under custom modules.

29 
Cosmos SDK (102) Architecture (Figure40) describes how an application routes transactions 
into different modules. Auth Module for account management, Bank Module for monetary 
transactions, Staking module for network validation, Gov module for network governance 
and voting. Custom Modules such as the VirtEngine Provider Daemon can be built into 
Cosmos SDK (102) to provide additional functionality such as connecting to an external 
Third-Party API, in this scenario the open-source cloud marketplace system known as 
Waldur.  
SLURM 
SLURM (Simple Linux Utility for Resource Management) is an open-source workload 
manager and job scheduler for high-performance computing (HPC) systems. It is designed to 
manage the allocation of compute resources and the execution of jobs on a compute 
cluster. SLURM is widely used in the HPC community and is considered a complete solution 
for managing HPC resources and executing jobs. It provides features such as resource 
allocation, job scheduling, resource monitoring, and job accounting. It is a flexible and 
scalable tool that can be customized to meet the needs of various HPC environments.  
VirtEngine Cloud Marketplace Daemon 
The bid engine queries for any existing orders on chain, and based on the on-chain provider 
configuration, places bids on behalf of the configured provider based on configured selling prices 
for resources. The daemon listens for changes in the configuration so users can use automation 
tooling to dynamically change the prices they are charging w/o restarting the daemon. You can 
see the key management code for provider tx signing in cmd/run.go.  
cluster 
The cluster package contains the necessary code for interacting with clusters of compute that a 
provider is offering on the open marketplace to deploy orders on behalf of users 
creating deployments based on manifests. Providers could easily implement cluster 
management solutions such as OpenStack, VMWare, OpenShift, Azure, AWS, OpenNebula, 
CloudStack, Kubernetes etc through VirtEngine-Waldur's API which supports a wide array of 
Cloud Computing systems.  
cmd 
The cobra command line utility wraps the rest of the code here and is buildable.  
event 
Declares the pubsub events that the provider needs to take action on won leases and received 
manifests.  
gateway 
Contains handler code for the rest server exposed by the provider

30 
manifest 
Contains code to parse manifests presented by users and interact with the underlying cloud 
platform APIs orderbook.  
Waldur Architecture 
Waldur is a service for sharing resources across projects. It is based on the delegation model where a 
customer can allocate certain users to perform technical or non-technical actions in the projects.  
Waldur is composed of a several components. (Figure 44) 
• Homeport (web client, graphical interface) -React application 
• Mastermind API server -Django/Django REST Framework application implementing the 
core business logic 
• Celery workers -Background processing of tasks 
• Celery beat -Scheduling of periodic tasks for background processing 
• PostgreSQL database -Storing persistent data, also serves as Celery result store in 
Kubernetes deployment 
• Redis -Tasks queue and result store for Celery (Docker Compose deployment only) 
• RabbitMQ -Tasks queue and result store for Celery (Kubernetes deployment only) 
Natural Language Interaction 
The VirtEngine system can be enhanced by implementing LLM (Language and Learning Models) that 
allow users to interact with the system using natural language. This Al-based approach will make the 
interaction between users and the system more intuitive and user-friendly. Users would be able to 
submit commands to an Al Chat Agent that is then able to process the request within the VirtEngine 
System (by interacting on behalf of the user) as well as answer questions with models trained on 
VirtEngine related queries, as well as connect users with human support agents.  
The algorithm will utilize Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques to understand user input 
and identify keywords and phrases that indicate their requirements.  
The LLM would be able to automatically generate API calls that are then processed by the system, for 
example a user may submit the following request: "Destroy all Virtual Machines that have the tag of 
DELETEME" -the LLM would then generate an equivalent API Call that destroys all Virtual Machines 
that have the tag DELETEME. Prior to processing the command, the LLM would attempt to identify the 
result of the action -this can be done by the LLM initiating a command that pulls all VM's with the 
tag DELETEME and providing the user with a response such as "I have found 3 Virtual Machines with 
the Tag DELETEME, the details of these Virtual Machines is as follows: 
#1: Database-Test, 192.168.1.1, Created: 04/05/2023 
#2: Web-Test, 192.168.1.2, Created: 05/06/2023 
#3: DemoDeployment: 192.168.1.3, Created: 01/24/2023 
Are you sure you would like to proceed with deleting these machines?" 
This response will act as a summary of the users request and also as a confirmation prior to any 
action being conducted.

31 
DETAILED DESCRIPTIONS OF THE FIGURES 
Figure 1: 
100. "VirtEngine" 100 is a system that provides a cloud-based platform for users to 
access virtual machines, containers, and supercomputing resources. It connects to 
various other components in the system, including "E Blockchain" (101), "E Cloud 
Marketplace" (103), "Cosmos SDK" (102), "E Supercomputer" (106), "E Cloud 
Integrations" (108), "E API" (109), and "E User Interface" (110).  
101. "E Blockchain" (101) is a decentralized ledger that allows for secure and 
transparent record-keeping of transactions within the VirtEngine system. It is 
connected to the "Public Ledger" (114) and "Genesis Account" (131) for storing and 
accessing transaction records, as well as the "Cosmos SDK" (102) for implementing 
blockchain functionality.  
102. "Cosmos SDK" (102) is a software development kit for building blockchain 
applications. It is connected to the "E Blockchain" (101) to provide the necessary 
functionality for the decentralized ledger.  
103. VE Cloud Marketplace (103) is connected to and communicates with the VE 
API (component 109) and the VE User Interface (component 110). The VE API allows 
for programmatic access to the marketplace and enables users to automate the 
process of purchasing and selling cloud services. The VE User Interface provides a 
graphical interface for users to interact with the marketplace and make purchases 
and sales.  
VE Cloud Marketplace (103) is also connected to the VE Waldur (component 107) 
marketplace system which subsequently connects to VE Cloud Integrations 
(component 108), which enables the marketplace to interface with various cloud 
service providers such as OpenStack (component 127) and Kubernetes (component 
128). This allows users to access and purchase a variety of cloud services from 
different providers through the VE Cloud Marketplace 103.  
VE Cloud Marketplace (103) is further connected to the VE Supercomputer 
(component 106) and the VE SLURM Clusters (component 113). The VE 
Supercomputer is a high-performance computing system that provides powerful 
computational resources for users. The VE SLURM Clusters are groups of compute 
nodes (component 114) that are managed by the Simple Linux Utility for Resource 
Management (SLURM) scheduling system. The connection between the VE Cloud 
Marketplace (103) and these components enables users to purchase and access the 
computational resources provided by the VE Supercomputer and VE SLURM Clusters 
through the marketplace.  
VE Cloud Marketplace (103) also interfaces with the VE Tokens (component 105), 
which are digital assets that can be used to purchase and sell cloud services on the 
marketplace. The VE Tokens are connected to the VE Blockchain (component 101) 
and the Public Ledger (component 114), which are used to track and verify

32 
transactions made using the VE Tokens. VE Identification 104, is a component that 
manages user identities within the VirtEngine system. It is connected to the VE 
Account 112 and the VE Custom Modules 111, allowing it to verify user identities and 
grant access to resources within the system. It is connected to Tensorflow 117 in 
order to process data and provide an overall score for the identity of a user.  
104. VirtEngine (VE) Tokens (104) are digital assets that represent the underlying 
value within the VirtEngine system. These tokens may be used for various purposes 
within the VirtEngine ecosystem, such as to purchase resources or services from the 
VE Cloud Marketplace (103), to access certain features or functionality within the 
system, or to stake in order to participate in the VE Staking Network (150).  
VE Tokens (104) are typically stored within the Identity Wallet (112), which is a 
digital wallet that is used to manage and securely store digital assets. The Identity 
Wallet (122) is connected to the Identity Network (111), which is a decentralized 
network that is used to verify and validate the authenticity of the VE Tokens (104).  
This network may be connected to various identity services (110), such as those 
provided by government agencies (151) or social media platforms (152), in order to 
verify the identity of the user associated with the Identity Wallet (112).  
VE Tokens (104) may also be used to access certain features or functionality within 
the VirtEngine system, such as the VE Supercomputer (106) or the VE Cloud 
Integrations (108). These components are connected to the VE Tokens (104) through 
the VirtEngine (100) and the Cosmos SDK (102), which is a software development kit 
that is used to build and deploy decentralized applications within the VirtEngine 
ecosystem. VE Tokens (104) may also be used to purchase resources or services from 
the VE Cloud Marketplace (103), such as virtual machines (137), containers (138), 
and VE Supercomputer (106) which may be used to run applications or workloads 
within the VirtEngine system.  
105. VE Identification 105 is a component of the VirtEngine system as shown in 
Figure 1. It is responsible for verifying the identity of users who want to access the 
system and its various services. To do this, it employs a number of different methods 
including identity verification, identity services, authentication and identity network.  
VE Identification 105 is connected with VE Authentication 112, providing a method 
for users to access their user accounts via Ledger Accounts, and Non-Custodial Key 
Management.  
The identity verification component 119 is responsible for verifying the identity of 
users through various methods such as email verification 147, SMS verification 148, 
and two factor authentication 150. These methods are used to confirm the identity 
of users and ensure that only authorized individuals are able to access the system.  
The identity services component 111 is responsible for providing services related to 
identity verification such as identity wallet 113, biometric sensors 142, and facial

33 
recognition 142. These services help to further confirm the identity of users and 
enhance security within the system.  
The identity network component 112 is responsible for connecting the various 
identity-related components within the VirtEngine system and enabling 
communication between them. It ensures that the various methods and services 
used for identity verification are able to work together effectively to confirm the 
identity of users.  
VE Identification 105 is connected to VE Tokens 104 through the VE API 109. This 
connection allows the system to provide rewards to compute owners and charge 
customers using the system. By verifying the identity of users through the various 
methods and services described above, VE Identification 104 is able to ensure that 
only authorized individuals are able to access the system and its services, and that 
they are charged appropriately for their use.  
106. VE Supercomputer 106 is a component within the VirtEngine system (100) 
that is responsible for providing high-performance computing (HPC) capabilities to 
users. It is connected to a number of other components within the system, including 
VE API 109, VE User Interface 110, VE Accounts 112, VE Tokens 104, VE Cloud 
Marketplace 103, and VE SLURM Clusters 113.  
VE Supercomputer 106 is connected to VE API 109, which allows it to interface with 
other components within the system and expose its capabilities to external 
applications and users. VE API 109 also enables users to access and interact with the 
supercomputer via a web-based interface, such as through a web browser.  
VE Supercomputer 106 is also connected to VE User Interface 110 via VE API 109, 
which provides a user-friendly interface through which users can access and utilize 
the supercomputer's capabilities. VE User Interface 110 may include features such as 
a graphical user interface (GUI), command-line interface (CLI), and various tools and 
resources for configuring and managing the supercomputer.  
VE Supercomputer 106 is connected to VE Accounts 112, which stores and manages 
user accounts within the VirtEngine system. VE Accounts 112 allows users to 
securely log in to the supercomputer and access their resources and configurations.  
VE Supercomputer 106 is connected to VE Cloud Marketplace 103, which provides 
Platform-as-a-Service functionality through VE Waldur 107 
VE Supercomputer 106 is connected to VE Tokens 104 through a connection that 
allows for the exchange of tokens as a form of payment or reward. When customers 
use the VE Supercomputer 106 to perform computational tasks, they may be 
required to pay in VE Tokens 104 as a form of payment. Similarly, the owners of the 
VE Supercomputer 106 may be rewarded in VE Tokens 104 for providing access to 
their computational resources. This connection between VE Supercomputer 105 and 
VE Tokens 104 allows for a flexible and secure means of exchange that can be easily

34 
tracked and managed through the use of the VE Blockchain 101. The VE Blockchain 
101 serves as a decentralized ledger that records all transactions involving VE Tokens 
104, ensuring transparency and security for all parties involved.  
VE Supercomputer 106 is also connected to VE SLURM Clusters 113, which provides 
support for managing and scheduling workloads within the supercomputer. VE 
SLURM Clusters 113 may include features such as job scheduling, resource 
allocation, and monitoring tools for optimizing the utilization of the supercomputer.  
107. VE Waldur 107 is a component of the VirtEngine system, as shown in Figure 
2. It is connected to various other components of the system, including VE Cloud 
Integrations 108, VE API 109, VE Supercomputer 106, and VE User Interface 110.  
VE Waldur 107 is responsible for providing a platform for managing cloud resources 
within the VirtEngine system. It allows users to create, provision, and manage virtual 
machines, containers, and other cloud resources through a user-friendly interface.  
VE Waldur 107 is connected to VE Cloud Integrations 108, which is responsible for 
integrating with various cloud platforms and services. This allows VirtEngine users to 
access and manage resources on a variety of cloud platforms, such as OpenStack and 
Kubernetes.  
VE Waldur 107 is also connected to the VE Supercomputer 106 component, which 
allows it to manage the allocation of resources within the VirtEngine system's 
supercomputer 106. This includes allocating compute nodes, managing the workload 
of the supercomputer, and ensuring that resources are used efficiently.  
VE Waldur 107 is also connected to the VE API 109, which provides an interface for 
interacting with the VirtEngine system programmatically. This allows developers to 
build custom applications and integrations that interact with the VirtEngine system 
and manage cloud resources.  
Finally, VE Waldur 107 is connected to the VE User Interface 110, which provides a 
user-friendly interface for interacting with the VirtEngine system and managing 
cloud resources. This allows users to easily access and manage their resources within 
the VirtEngine system.  
108. VE Cloud Integrations 108 is a component of the VirtEngine system that 
enables the integration of the VirtEngine system with various cloud platforms. This 
component is responsible for providing an interface for connecting the VirtEngine 
system to various cloud platforms, such as OpenStack 127 and Kubernetes 128, and 
for enabling the VirtEngine system to access and utilize the resources and services 
provided by these cloud platforms. The VE Cloud Integrations component is 
connected to the VE Supercomputer 106 and the VE Cloud Marketplace 103, and it 
enables these components to access and utilize the resources and services provided 
by the various cloud platforms that are integrated with the VirtEngine system. The 
VE Cloud Integrations component is also connected to the VE API 109, and it enables 
the VE API to access and utilize the resources and services provided by the various

35 
cloud platforms that are integrated with the VirtEngine system. This allows users of 
the VirtEngine system to access and utilize the resources and services provided by 
the integrated cloud platforms through the VE API 109 and the VE User Interface 
110.  
109. The VirtEngine API (109) is a software interface that allows different 
components within the VirtEngine system to communicate with each other and 
exchange data. It acts as a bridge between the various components of the system, 
allowing them to interact and collaborate to perform various tasks. The API allows 
the VirtEngine system to access and manipulate data stored in the VE Blockchain 
(101), VE Cloud Marketplace (103), VE Supercomputer (106), and other components 
of the system. It also enables external applications and systems to access and use 
the capabilities of the VirtEngine system through a set of defined interfaces and 
protocols. The API may be implemented using a variety of technologies, such as 
RESTful web services or GraphQL, and may be exposed to external clients through 
various methods, such as HTTP or WebSockets. The API may be secured using 
various authentication and authorization mechanisms, such as OAuth or JWT, as well 
as Multifactor Authentication for sensitive transactions to ensure that only 
authorized users and systems can access and use the VirtEngine system as its 
intended.  
110. VE User Interface 110 is a component of the VirtEngine system that allows 
users to interact with and access various features and functionality of the platform.  
It is connected to VE Identification 104, which is responsible for verifying the identity 
of users and providing secure access to the system. This connection allows the user 
interface to present personalized options and features to users based on their 
verified identity.  
VE User Interface 110 is also connected to VE Tokens 105, which is responsible for 
managing and issuing virtual tokens that can be used as a form of payment or 
reward within the VirtEngine system. This connection allows the user interface to 
present options for purchasing and using tokens, as well as displaying the user's 
current token balance.  
VE User Interface 110 is connected to VE API 109, which provides a programmatic 
interface for accessing and interacting with the VirtEngine platform. This connection 
allows the user interface to make requests to the API and display the resulting data 
and functionality to the user.  
VE User Interface 110 is connected to VE Cloud Marketplace 103, which is a platform 
for buying and selling computing resources within the VirtEngine system. This 
connection allows the user interface to present options for purchasing and selling 
resources, as well as displaying the current state of the marketplace.  
VE User Interface 110 is connected to VE Supercomputer 105, which is a platform for 
running high-performance computing tasks on the VirtEngine system. This 
connection allows the user interface to present options for running tasks on the

36 
supercomputer, as well as displaying the status and progress of tasks that are 
currently running.  
111. VE Custom Modules (111) component is used to extend the functionality of 
the Cosmos SDK blockchain (102) by providing a framework for the development of 
additional modules. The VE Custom Modules component is connected to the Cosmos 
SDK blockchain through the use of APIs, which allow the custom modules to interact 
with and make use of the features and functionality provided by the blockchain. In 
the VirtEngine system, the VE Custom Modules component is used to support the 
development of the VEID (VE Identification 104), VESC (VE Supercomputer 106), and 
VECMP (VE Cloud Marketplace 103) modules, which provide additional features and 
functionality within the VirtEngine system.  
112. VE Authentication 112 component is used to authenticate users into 
VirtEngine 100, VE Authentication 112 provides access for users secured using 
various authentication and authorization mechanisms, such as OAuth or JWT, as well 
as Multifactor Authentication for sensitive transactions to ensure that only 
authorized users and systems can access and use the VirtEngine system as its 
intended. VE Authentication 112 also enables access to the platform via SSO 
Providers such as Google, Facebook, Microsoft, and Active Directory 
implementations.  
113. VE Accounts 113 is a component that manages user accounts and their 
associated permissions within the VirtEngine system. This component allows users to 
create and manage their own accounts, as well as assign permissions to other users, 
enabling them to access and manage various resources within the system.  
114. VE SLURM Clusters 114 is a component that manages the creation and 
deployment of SLURM clusters within the VirtEngine system. SLURM is a popular 
open-source cluster management and job scheduling system used in high
performance computing environments. This component allows users to create and 
manage SLURM clusters, as well as submit jobs to these clusters, through the 
VirtEngine User Interface 110.  
115. VE Compute Nodes 115 is a component that manages the allocation and 
scheduling of compute nodes within the VirtEngine system. Compute nodes are 
physical or virtual machines that are used to run jobs submitted to the VE 
Supercomputer 106 
116. VE Benchmarking 116: This component is responsible for measuring the 
performance of the compute nodes within the VirtEngine system. This can be used 
to assess the capabilities of the system, optimize resource allocation, and identify 
potential bottlenecks.  
117. VE Metric Data 117: This component stores data related to the performance 
of the compute nodes in the VirtEngine system. This data can be used to track the

37 
performance of the system over time, and to identify trends or patterns that may be 
relevant to optimizing resource utilization.  
118. TensorFlow 118, TensorFlow is a software library for machine learning and 
deep learning that allows users to train and deploy machine learning models. It is 
connected to the VirtEngine 100 and the VE Identification 104, indicating that it is 
used for machine learning tasks within the system.  
119. VE Mobile Application 119, is a mobile application that allows users to access 
and interact with the VirtEngine system from their mobile devices. It is connected to 
the VirtEngine 100 and the VE User Interface 110, indicating that it is used as a 
means for users to access and interact with the system.  
120. Identity Verification 110, is a function of the system that is used to verify the 
identity of users. It is connected to the VE Identification 104 and the Identity Services 
110, indicating that it is used to verify the identity of users through the use of various 
identity services.  
121. Identity Services 111 is a system that is responsible for managing the 
identities of users within the VirtEngine system. It is connected to the Identity Wallet 
113, which stores the identity information and allows users to manage their identity 
information. It is also connected to the Identity Network 122, which is a 
decentralized network of identity-verifying nodes that help to ensure the integrity 
and security of the identity information. The Identity Services 111 system is also 
connected to the Identity System 132, which is a centralized system that is 
responsible for managing the overall identity infrastructure within the VirtEngine 
system. It is also connected to the Email Verification 148 and SMS Verification 149 
systems, which are used to verify the identity of users through email and SMS 
messages. It is connected to the Two Factor Authentication 150 system, which adds 
an additional layer of security to the identity verification process by requiring users 
to provide a second form of authentication in order to access their identity 
information.  
Identity Services provides the VE Identification system with a direct implementation 
to Tensorflow 118 
122. The Identity Network 122 is a decentralized network that is used to 
authenticate users and devices within the VirtEngine system. It uses blockchain 
technology to securely store and manage identity information, including personal 
data and authentication credentials. The Identity Network is connected to the 
Identity System 132, which is responsible for managing the overall identity 
management process within the VirtEngine system. The Identity Network is also 
connected to the Identity Wallet 113, which is used to securely store and manage 
digital assets, such as VE Tokens 105 and other digital currencies. Additionally, the 
Identity Network is connected to the Identity Services 111, which provides a range of

38 
services related to identity management, including identity verification, 
authentication, and authorization. The Identity Network is designed to provide a 
secure and reliable means of identifying and authenticating users within the 
VirtEngine system, ensuring that only authorized users have access to the resources 
and services provided by the system.  
123. Identity Wallet 113, is a digital wallet that is used to store and manage 
identity information for users. It is connected to the Identity Network 122 and the VE 
Accounts 113, indicating that it is used to store and manage identity information for 
users within the VirtEngine system.  
124. Service Offerings 124: This component refers to the various services that are 
offered by the VirtEngine system. These services may include things like compute 
resources, storage, networking, and other infrastructure components that are 
necessary for running workloads on the system.  
125. Public Ledger 125: This component refers to the publicly-available ledger that 
is used to track the transactions and interactions that occur within the VirtEngine 
system. This ledger can be used to verify the authenticity of transactions, and to 
ensure that the system is operating in a transparent and trustworthy manner.  
126. Sensitive Data Storage 126: This component refers to the secure storage 
system that is used to store sensitive data within the VirtEngine system. This can 
include things like user credentials, financial data, and other information that needs 
to be protected from unauthorized access.  
127. OpenStack 127, is a software platform that provides cloud computing 
services for building and managing public, private, and hybrid clouds. OpenStack is 
connected to component 115, Sensitive Data Storage, which is a system designed to 
securely store and manage sensitive data within the VirtEngine system.  
128. Kubernetes 128, is an open-source container orchestration system that is 
used to manage containerized applications in a clustered environment. Kubernetes is 
connected to component 137, Virtual Machine, which is a software emulation of a 
physical computer that allows the VirtEngine system to run multiple operating 
systems and applications on a single physical machine.  
129. Orders 129, is a system used to manage orders placed within the VirtEngine 
system, including the tracking of orders and the provisioning of resources to fulfill 
those orders. Orders is connected to component 126, Sensitive Data Storage, which 
stores and manages sensitive data related to the orders placed within the VirtEngine 
system.  
130. HPC Plugins 130, are plugins designed to enhance the performance and 
capabilities of the VirtEngine system for high-performance computing (HPC) 
applications. HPC Plugins are connected to component 136, SLURM Workload 
Cluster, which is a system used to manage and schedule workloads on a cluster of 
compute nodes within the VirtEngine system.

39 
131. The Identification System 131 is a component of the VirtEngine system that is 
responsible for verifying the identity of users and devices. It includes a range of tools 
and technologies that are used to confirm the authenticity of user identity claims 
and establish trust between parties.  
The Identification System is connected to a number of other components within the 
VirtEngine system, including the Sensitive Data Storage 115, the Genesis Accounts 
126, the Identity Services 110, and the Identity Network 211. It also has connections 
to external systems and services, including the Web Scopes 142, Google 143, 
Facebook 144, and Microsoft 145, which are used for identity verification and 
authentication.  
Identity System is connected to component 139, Camera, which is used to capture 
images of users for the purposes of identity verification. Identity System is also 
connected to component 140, Biometric Sensors, which are sensors used to collect 
biometric data from users for identity verification purposes.  
The Identification System is designed to be highly secure and reliable, using a 
combination of biometric data, facial recognition, and two-factor authentication to 
ensure that only authorized users and devices are granted access to the system. It 
also includes mechanisms for storing and managing sensitive data in a secure 
manner, including support for encrypted data storage and secure key management.  
132. Genesis Account 132, is the first account created within the VirtEngine 
system and is used to manage the initial distribution of tokens and resources within 
the system. Genesis Account is connected to component 115, Sensitive Data Storage, 
which stores and manages sensitive data related to the User Accounts such as Order 
Information, Provider Connections, and overall administration data.  
133. Support Requests 133, is a system used to manage and track support 
requests made by users within the VirtEngine system. Support Requests is connected 
to component 133, Service Desk System, which is a system used to manage and 
resolve support requests made by users.  
134. Resources 134, is a system used to manage and track the allocation and 
usage of resources within the VirtEngine system, including compute nodes, storage, 
and networking resources. Resources is connected to component 135, SLURM 
Workload, which is a system used to manage and schedule workloads on the 
resources managed by the Resources system.

40 
CLAIMS 
1. A decentralized system for identification, authentication, data encryption, and cloud 
computing, comprising: a method that enables users to verify their identity and 
authenticate through document uploads, biometric sensors, facial recognition, and 
web-based scopes such as single sign-on, email verification, and SMS verification; a 
blockchain platform; a Al based facial recognition algorithm; a module supporting a 
cluster compute workload manager for deploying workloads across decentralized 
nodes; a module that integrates Cloud Computing services such as Virtual Machines, 
Containers; and a billing system for tracking the use of resources and generating 
invoices for users who purchased computing resources.  
2. The system of claim 1, wherein the mobile app uses the camera to capture images of 
identity documents and the user's face for biometric and facial recognition.  
3. The system of claim 1, wherein an algorithm compares the uploaded data with meta 
data collected from email, SMS, and single sign-on systems to recognize a user's 
identity through an automated, artificially intelligent algorithm.  
4. The system of claim 1, wherein the system offers Decentralized Exchange services to 
convert Cryptocurrency into FIAT Currencies such as USD/AUD/EUR.  
5. The system of claim 1, wherein the system offers multiple options for 
authentication, including ledger accounts, multifactor and non-custodial key 
management, which can be linked to password-less authentication systems such as 
Google, Facebook, Microsoft or Active Directory single sign-on.  
6. The system of claim 1, wherein the system uses data encryption based on third party 
public keys to ensure sensitive data is not stored on the public ledger and can only 
be accessed by authorized user accounts.  
7. The system of claim 1, wherein the system uses a Proof-Of-Stake consensus process 
to handle transactions and identification verification.  
8. The system of claim 1, wherein the decentralized cloud marketplace allows users to 
rent out their computing resources and deploy workloads across a decentralized 
network of nodes.  
9. The system of claim 1, wherein the HPC module includes a library of pre-configured 
HPC workloads that can be deployed on demand, as well as support for custom 
workloads.  
10. A system that combines two of the following independent systems: Decentralized 
Identification, Decentralized Cloud Computing, and Decentralized Distributed 
Computing. Such as a system that uses Decentralized Identification & Decentralized 
Cloud Computing together or a system that uses Decentralized Cloud Computing & 
Decentralized Distributed Computing.

41 
1. Decentralized Identification consists of a method used to verify user 
identities in a distributed system such as Blockchain.  
2. Decentralized Cloud Computing consists of a method used to provide Cloud 
Computing services in a distributed system such as Blockchain.  
3. Decentralized Distributed Computing consists of a method used to provide 
High-Performance-Compute or Cluster Computing in a distributed system 
such as Blockchain.  
11. A method for providing decentralized cloud computing services using a blockchain 
network, comprising: 
1. Allowing providers to integrate their cloud computing services through a 
marketplace system.  
2. Receiving a request for a cloud computing service from a user; 
3. Storing certain data on the blockchain network in an encrypted form; 
4. Determining available resources within the decentralized network that can 
fulfill the request; 
5. Allocating the requested resources to the user; 
6. Providing the cloud computing service to the user using the allocated 
resources; 
7. Providing the user with access to manage the cloud computing service.  
8. Tracking the usage of the allocated resources and providing a record of the 
usage on the blockchain network.  
9. A user interface for receiving requests for cloud computing services from 
users, and allowing providers to enter their cloud computing services; 
12. A method for providing decentralized identification services using a blockchain 
network, comprising: 
1. Receiving a request for identification verification from a user; 
2. Verifying the user's identity using a combination of biometric data and 
identifying documents; 
3. Storing certain identity data on the blockchain network in an encrypted form; 
4. Processing the Identity Data using an ML/Al algorithm to provide a scoring 
system for the user's identity.  
5. An access control module for providing access to the encrypted identity data 
to authorized parties upon request.  
6. A biometric data capture module for collecting biometric data from the user;

42 
13. A method for providing a decentralized supercomputer comprising a network of 
nodes, the method comprising: 
1. deploying the supercomputer across multiple nodes in a decentralized 
manner; 
2. integrating a workload manager to operate the supercomputer; 
3. offering the supercomputer for use from a cloud marketplace system; 
4. providing rewards to nodes offering their compute resources to the 
supercomputer.  
14. The method of claim 11, wherein a network of nodes that are located within close 
proximity are clustered to act as mini supercomputers for HPC tasks that are 
submitted by users.

43 
 
 Figure 1 A: 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
44 
 
  
Figure 1B:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
45 
 
 Figure 2A: 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
46 
 
 Figure 2B: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
47 
 
  
Figure 3 (Dashboard):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
48 
 
 Figure 4 (Add Public Offering: Overview):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
49 
 
 Figure 5 (Add Public Offering: Description):  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
50 
 
 Figure 6 (Add Public Offering: Management)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
51 
 
 Figure 7 (Add Public Offering: Accounting Components)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
52 
 
 Figure 8 (Add Public Offering: Accounting Plans)  
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
53 
 
 Figure 9 (Review Offerings)  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
54 
 
 Figure 10 (Public Offering: Edit Offering)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
55 
 
 Figure 11 (Global Cloud Marketplace)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
56 
 
 Figure 12 (Example Offering)  
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
57 
 
 Figure 13 (Check Out: Configure)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
58 
 
 Figure 14 (Resource Example)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
59 
 
 Figure 15 (Order Details)  
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
60 
 
 Figure 16 (VirtEngine Identification Mobile Application):  
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
61 
 
  Figure 17 (VirtEngine MultiFactor Authentication)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
62 
 
  
Figure 18A (Waldur Architecture)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
63 
 
  
Figure 18B (Waldur Architecture)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
64 
 
 Figure 19 (Waldur SLURM Diagram)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2024203136     11 Jul 2024
65 
 
  
Referenced Codebases : 
 
VE-waldur -v2 (107) : 
 https://github.com/virtengine/ve -waldur -v2 
VirtEngine  (100) : 
 https://github.com/virtengine/virtengine  
VE-portal -v2:  
https://github.com/virtengine/ve -portal -v2 
Cosmos SDK  (102) :  
https://github.com/virtengine/ Cosmos SDK  (102)  
Tendermint:  
https://github.com/virtengine/tendermint  
Tensorflow:  
https://github.com/tensorflow/tensorflow  
SLURM:  
https://github.com/SchedMD/slurm  
Kubernetes:  
https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes  
OpenStack:  
https://github.com/openstack/openstack  
References Cited:  
https://docs.cosmos.network/master/building -modules/intro.html  
VirtEngine Waldur documentation:  
http://docs.waldur.com/   
Waldur+DET.io Partnership:  
https://waldur.com/solutions/hosting -provider/  
OpenStack  
https://www.openstack.org/  
Cosmos SDK  (102)  
https://v1.cosmos.network/sdk  
SLURM:  
https://slurm.schedmd.com/  2024203136     11 Jul 2024
66 
 
  
Inventors:  
Jonathan Philipos  – Designed VirtEngine  architecture, contributed towards Waldur  feature 
implementations  (Marketplace System, Kubernetes)  –  
DET-IO PTY LIMITED , Australia  
Ilja Livenson – Developed and implemented Open Source Waldur Cloud computing system . 
OpenNode LLC , Estonia  
Contributors:  
Zhaokun Chen  
Yifei Chen  
Liam Dao  
Rohan Poorun  
 
Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology School of Engineering , Australia   
 2024203136     11 Jul 2024